Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now sometimes you are going to want to check if multiple conditions are true because so far we've only
been looking at single conditions.
If one thing is true or not true for example we might want to check if a username and password are true.
Let's look at how the check of two conditions are true if each test passes then the overall expression
or our program will evaluate to true.
So let's start here with a user name and you can already see I've entered in some comments as identifying
the program in part
welcome
please enter your username
OK so that's our first one and let's create a variable password and put
Oh please enter your password.
OK.
Let's just close that off.
If use a name
be helpful if I spelt it right.
Because otherwise nothing is going to work.
If your name is not Tony
and our password is not password 1 2 3 It wouldn't be very hard to hack.
This was a real program print
Access Denied
else.
Don't forget your code on prent.
Welcome
OK.
So I've already saved this file.
So let's run it and see what we get.
Welcome please enter your username username Tony present your password.
P A S S W O already.
One two three.
Welcome.
There we go.
So two conditions are true and our program has run.
Let's try this again.
Present our username Frank password p a.
SS access denied.
So Bodor conditions are incorrect.
So if so our program evaluates to false.
OK let's just step through this program for a moment.
Here we have the lines.
Suppose one and two we ask the user to input their user name and password.
Then we create an if statement and we Calpine that if the username does not equal Tony and the password
does not equal password 1 2 3 then print access is denied as long as the user input and the password
equal Tony and password 1 2 3.
Then the program is a success.
Print welcome and that's how we test for multiple conditions using the current condition.
We look at this later on in furter lectures and bigger programs.
Thank you for listening and I see you in the next lecture.